Let's go through a project closure checklist.
These simple items will really help you bring your project to closure.
Secure stakeholder acceptance.
You really can't close a project if your stakeholders don't think you are done.
Make sure your stakeholders have verified and accepted the project deliverables.
Transition results to the owner or operator.
That is the deliverables of the project.
Follow the items on your WBS for properly handing off the project results
to who or whatever organization that will support it.
Sometimes we will use the terms dev-ops to represent
the organizational structure of this.
Capture those lessons learned.
We are not looking to crucify anyone.
You want real constructive inputs, likely to be more negative than positive,
but don't forget about reinforcing all the good things the team has performed.
Gather up all the improvement ideas, document them,
and plow them back into the next project.
Conduct team performance evaluations.
Now if you are responsible for providing performance
evaluations for your team on an annual basis,
it is better to collect your thoughts and take some notes so you don't forget.
Always provide constructive and actionable feedback to your team members.
Final project financial reports.
What this is is you need to document and publish the final budget
summary and variance analysis of the project.
Now it may not all look pretty,
but talk to the ups and downs of your charts with the
constructive business reasons why they are that way.
Like, for example,
the expenses went up here because the stakeholder wanted
more features and they were approved.
And close out any contractual or business matters.
If you used third party vendors,
make sure the work orders for your project are completed or closed.
Also for any internal accounting or charge numbers and things like that,
they do need to be attended to as well.
And lastly, celebrate.
Remember from one of our first slides?
Project management is hard work, so celebrate.
Maybe an awards ceremony and make it fun or humorous or a luncheon,
things like that.
People love to be thanked for hard work. Okay, our project is now closed and let's summarize the entire course.